First, the creation stage of the practices of the visualization is practicing on the relative truth
.
Because nature has two, every kind of thing of everything in nature, there is two.
That's what the Buddha taught, relative truth and absolute truth, these are the two truths.
And that encompasses everything, there is nothing that is out of that, that's the way nature is.
Now practicing, getting enlightenment, we like to make everything as an enlightened status.
Not just one side and this side. Everything. That means we like to get enlightenment, relative
truth, we like to be in the enlightened status.
And absolute truth be also enlightened status. These two are inseparable.
Relative truth, there is no single, independent, relative truth beside absolute truth, there is no
single, independent, existing absolute truth beside relative truth.
This is completely inseparable state. Inseparable state is what in Dzogchen teaching and Vajrayana
teaching, known as Great Union.
The union, the united, the union cannot be separated, is it this?
As they use the example, fire and it is heat. Fire, it is warm.
We cannot put fire without warm, warm without fire. That cannot be separated.
If it is fire, it is inseparable, both are there.
Similarly, these two truths are, exactly that.
First down, our two truths are deluded by the dualities. We don't see this enlightened status.
Now through the Vajrayana teaching, instantly we are really going to connect in a discovery. It is
an enlightened state.
Relative truth is enlightened, absolute truth is enlightened, both are inseparable states.
That is the Vajrayana teaching, it is a discovery.
Vajrayana teaching is fast, quick and very comfortable and speed.
Vajrayana teaching is therefore, that's what they call diamond path, diamond weakness.
It is the same as in the win-win, big traffic games.
There is what is called diamond line lines, diamond line, lane, diamond line.
Devil lane is faster, speed, comfortable and you move but with qualification.
Not just immediately jump there, there, with qualification.
If you have to qualify, if you move there, it is really fast.
Fastness moves and it will lead you to your destination faster.
Similarly, this doki teaching is, is an Vajrayana teaching or Vajrayana teaching is fast and speed.
So now we are talking back again to this topic.
The creative state and the completion state or creative state of visualization, complete state of
dissolution.
That is why I use the terminology. These two stages.
So this, this creative state of the visualization, immediately we transcendent, transforming this
relative truth into enlightenment states.
Immediately we are transformed.
What we are going to write? We are going to write poem, we are going to write song, song.
We meditate on the poem, we meditate on the poem.
Immediately we are really transcendent.
That form and song has enlightened status, state.
That is known as the essence meaning of the visualization.
In order to do this, we are immediately provoking our, this primordial wisdom.
As I said, when I taught in doki teaching, the three kaya, primordial wisdom, let that reflect it
in the form of a Buddha.
Because primordial wisdom has no restrictions.
Primordial wisdom is kept free, not regulated.
As you desire, that is what we are actualizing.
That we can, we really can tell in the dreams.
Dreams is all mental provocations.
As we think, as we motivate it, that's what the dream is coming, mostly.
Reflect that to the channels and coming out of the dreams.
Same way, this one, this time more organized way, primordial wisdom.
Now let that begin our primordial wisdom, our awareness.
Let that begin being in the Buddha.
In this dead moment, then you are in the dead Buddha's hands.
See, your primordial wisdom, our primordial wisdom instantly went off and that Buddha, Buddha.
And that Buddha is then such as the Buddha Vedasathas, Buddha Vedakalas, all Gauravimas, Buddha
Shaktamuni, whatever.
We instantly become that.
So what that means we become in that state of our form is become that status of the Buddha, not
just only our form.
We are going to say environment, all the forms, all that our eyesight have become enlightened
status.
So instantly you bring up all this in that enlightened status, the old forms.
And then we are going to recite in the mantras.
And that moment, not just only recite ourselves, but the whole sound system of the universe is now
waking up to the sound of enlightenment.
Right? Keeping up that thought, kind of meditation strongly in our heart and mind.
And that is known as it really transforming relative truth of this type of things into the
enlightened state, Buddha status.
Status. So that is really all that.
Now we think about this complete status.
It is dealing with more direct focus to the mind.
And this is also known as absolute truth, absolute truth.
And that also absolute truth is already enlightened state too, enlightened state.
That's what we are talking.
Our nature of the mind is Thirikaya status already.
Now you bring up that realization to discover that inner nature and then deeper it in as Zokki
status,
or such as known as inseparably purity and emptiness token and meditate on that status.
Status. Such as as we dissolve, all the dissolved states too, as we dissolve meditate.
That will bring up quickly our mind or even as enlightened state as it is.
And then both are inseparable.
So creating a stage of the visualization and a complete stage of the dissolve state in a separable
state.
They are not really divided separately.
It is same because it is the nature of everything.
So therefore this very inner teaching is so powerful, so spiritual.
When we practice, very inner practice that really immediately go to the Zokki state as complete
stage of practices.
And then at the same time, we are also activating all this, our weakness.
And instead the object of our eye or our sight and our ears are ascending into the enlightened
state.
And therefore, very inner teaching is considered in more powerful practices and as well as Zokki is
very inner teaching.
And also reaching enlightenment in very inner teaching.
Yet in the Buddha teaching he said, by the Soka practices, reaching enlightenment, it will take
three countless eons.
Also there is some division, three countless eons.
But very inner teaching is about the outer tender practices.
You will practice of the outer tender, not just three countless eons, but just a matter of the lif
etimes.
And the seven lifetimes, or sixty lifetimes, or sixty lifetimes, seventy lifetimes, and three lif
And in another practice such as Mahayoga, Anayoga, and Adiyoga practice, within these lifetimes.
So reaching enlightenment.
So therefore, since it is so powerful, we put the practice with joyful, joyful courage and
commitment, with devotion.
Therefore, really, the result comes quite fast because we are chatting to the goal of the nature
and the heart of the enlightened immediately.
So that's what we talk. Thank you.
Now Mr. Ok, a little bit, so we talk tomorrow. Thank you.